\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename locarna.info
@settitle @command{locarna} Reference Manual
@setchapternewpage on
@finalout
@c $Id: locarna.texi,v 1.4 2008/02/26 12:20:01 will Exp $

@dircategory Bioinformatic tools
@direntry
* locarna: (locarna).      Local Alignment of RNA
@end direntry

@ifinfo
This file documents the tool @command{locarna} which computes
local and global sequence-structure alignments of RNA.

Copyright (C) 2005,2006,2007 Sebastian Will.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be stated in a
translation approved by me.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title locarna
@subtitle Local Alignment of RNA
@author Sebastian Will @email{will(@@)informatik.uni-freiburg.de}

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2005,2006,2007 Sebastian Will.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by me.
@end titlepage

@ifinfo
@node Top
@top @command{locarna}

@command{locarna} computes local and global sequence-structure alignments of RNA.

@menu
* Overview::                    Overview of @command{locarna}.
* Invoking locarna::            How to run @command{locarna}.
* Reports::                     Reporting bugs or suggestions.
* Availability::                Obtaining @command{locarna}.
@end menu
@end ifinfo

@node Overview
@chapter Overview of @command{locarna}

@node Invoking locarna
@chapter How to run @command{locarna}

The format for running the @command{locarna} program is:

@example
@command{locarna} [@var{option}]@dots{} @var{file1} @var{file2}
@end example

@command{locarna} supports the following options:

@table @samp
@item -m @var{score}
@itemx --match-score=@var{score}
Use @var{score} for scoring base matchs (unless ribosum matrix given).

@item -M @var{score}
@itemx --mismatch @var{score}
Use @var{score} for scoring base mismatchs (unless ribosum matrix given).

@itemx --ribosum @var{file}
Read RIBOSUM matrix from file. The file must be in extended Ribosum
format as provided with the locarna distribution.
If such a file is available, locarna uses the contained information
for scoring base matchs and arc matchs.

@end table

@node Reports
@chapter Reporting Bugs

Please report bugs or suggestions to 
@email{will(@@)informatik.uni-freiburg.de}.

@node Availability
@chapter Obtaining @command{locarna}

The latest version of this distribution is available on-line from:

@example
@url{http://www.bioinf.uni-freiburg.de/Software/LocARNA/}
@end example

@contents
@bye
